#CNV26936: new content for multi-queue (#77162)
openshift/openshift-docs: virt/virtual_machines/advanced_vm_management/virt-about-multi-queue.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-about-multi-queue"]
= About multi-queue functionality
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: virt-about-multi-queue

toc::[]

Use multi-queue functionality to scale network throughput and performance on virtual machines (VMs) with multiple vCPUs.

> By default, queueCount, which is derived from the domain XML, is determined by the number of vCPUs allocated to a VM. Network performance does not scale as the number of vCPUs increases. Additionally, because virtio-net has only one TX and RX queue, guests cannot transmit or retrieve packs in parallel.

Reviewer: * Is "queueCount" a proper noun or is it something that should go in backticks and have a description (idk what that would be). Maybe:
```suggestion
By default, the `queueCount` value, which is derived from the domain XML, is determined by the number of vCPUs allocated to a VM. Network performance does not scale as the number of vCPUs increases. Additionally, because virtio-net has only one TX and RX queue, guests cannot transmit or retrieve packs in parallel.
```

* Do TX and RX need definitions here?
* Wonder about "virtio-net" as well - does it need backticks? (I don't know enough to say :slightly_smiling_face:)

Author: Will update formatting of queueCount. AFAIK virtio-net is the name of the feature but not the value, so leaving as-is. 

@yossisegev Do you think we need to define RX/TX or should users be familiar with the retrieve/transmit definitions?

Reviewer 2: Rx/Tx are well-known terms, I don't think they need any definition.
I would, however, change it from `RX` and `TX` to `Rx` and `Tx` (lower-case 'x'), which is the standard use.

Author: Will update format.

[NOTE]
====
Enabling virtio-net multiqueue does not offer significant improvements when the number of vNICs in a guest instance is proportional to the number of vCPUs.
====

[id="virt-about-multi-queue-ki_{context}"]
== Known limitations

* MSI vectors are still consumed if virtio-net multiqueue is enabled in the host but not enabled in the guest operating system by the administrator.
* Each virtio-net queue consumes 64 KiB of kernel memory for the vhost driver.

> * Starting a VM with more than 16 CPUs results in no connectivity if networkInterfaceMultiqueue is enabled (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-16107[CNV-16107]).

Reviewer 3: Should `networkInterfaceMultiqueue` be in backticks? And maybe qualify by saying "the `networkInterfaceMultiqueue` field" or something?

> * Known issue: Starting a VM with more than 16 CPUs results in no connectivity if networkInterfaceMultiqueue is enabled (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-16107[CNV-16107]).

Reviewer: Don't know that this one needs a specific intro phrase.
```suggestion
* Starting a VM with more than 16 CPUs results in no connectivity if the `networkInterfaceMultiqueue` parameter is enabled (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-16107[CNV-16107]).
```

Author: Will update.
